create article PTZ camera (#688)
airalab/robonomics-wiki: docs/robonomics-video.md

---
title: Robonomics Video Service
contributors: [nakata5321]
---

This article shows how to add ip camera to home assistant and send video to robonomics web service.

To connect a camera to Home Assistant, you need to know its IP address and create a local camera account to connect to the RTSP stream.

<robo-wiki-note type="warning">
Since this is done differently in each camera, this is not considered in this article.
</robo-wiki-note>

Requirements:
- IP camera
- Configured local camera account
- IP address of the camera
- Configured Home Assistant

<robo-wiki-note type="note">

In this article assumes that you have a general IP camera without RTZ(rotate,tilt, zoom) options. 

> If you have RTZ camera, check ["RTZ camera" article](/docs/ptz-camera). And then go to second step here.

Author: А вот не ведь должен не просто вернуться к это статье, но и пропустить первый шаг тут (который  "Connect the Camera")

</robo-wiki-note>

## Connect the Camera

First, you need to find out the url address from the rtsp stream of the camera. 
To find information, try entering the following query on the Internet: "<CAMERA_NAME> rtsp stream".
Stream url must start with `rtsp://<IP_Address>...`. 

This article uses a Tapo camera and the stream path is `rtsp://<IP_Address>/stream1`.

Open Home Assistant and go to "Settings"-> "Devices & Services". Press the "ADD INTEGRATION" button and
start typing "generic camera" integration. Choose it.

 <robo-wiki-picture src="home-assistant/generic.jpg" />

In the configuration window provide next information:
- Stream Source URL - The URL of camera RTSP stream
- Username - write a username of your local camera account
- Password - write a password for your local camera account

<robo-wiki-picture src="home-assistant/genericconf.jpg" />

scroll down the setting and press the "Submit" button.

> In Preview window activate the checkbox "This image looks good." and then the "Submit" button. And finish installation.

Author: Не так. После нажатия кнопки Submit бкдет еще одно окошко, где скажут что установка завершена и надо будет нажать кнопку "Finish". Поэтому последняя правка не верна

<robo-wiki-picture src="home-assistant/preview-camera.jpg" />

### Add to the Dashboard

> Additionally, you can add the stream to your dashboard. To do this, let's go to it and create a new card 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, you can add the stream to your dashboard. To do this, navigate to the dashboard and create a new card 
```

"Picture Glance". Further:
- enter the title you want
- delete data from image path
- select our camera in camera_entity
- in the camera view, select live so that there is less delay

And save it.
<robo-wiki-picture src="home-assistant/camera_picture_glance.jpg" />

## Check media folder

Before sending the video to the Robonomics Video Service, it must be saved in a folder, and Home Assistant must have access to this folder. 
The easiest option in this case is to use a media pack, in which the Home Assistant stores all the media.

- If you use HAOS or Pre-installed Image your Home Assistant **already have Media folder**.
- If you use Home Assistant Core, you should go to `.homeassistant` folder and create `media` folder in it.
- If you use Home Assistant Docker, add ` -v /PATH_TO_YOUR_MEDIA:/media \` line to the Docker command.

to check that everything works, go to the “Media” -> “local media” tab and see an empty folder (don’t see any errors):

<robo-wiki-picture src="home-assistant/media-folder.jpg" />

## Service Call

> To send a video to Robonomics, you should call a service "Robonomics: Save recording to robonomics ". Now you will do it manually, but later you can create automation for it. 

Reviewer: А вообще, у тебя тут повтор названия сервиса, можно избежать

> To do this, go to "Developer tools" -> "Services" and find "Robonomics: Save recording to robonomics ".

Author: https://github.com/airalab/robonomics-wiki/pull/688/commits/628c50bc9368a4d6fbb259e735b3b16f6ae99346

<robo-wiki-picture src="home-assistant/robonomics-service.jpg" />

In "Targets" choose your camera entity.

> in "Path to save the recording" you should provide an absolute path to the folder,

Author: https://github.com/airalab/robonomics-wiki/pull/688/commits/628c50bc9368a4d6fbb259e735b3b16f6ae99346

where Home Assistant can save the video:
- For Pre-installed image - `/home/homeassistant/.homeassistant/media`;
- For HA OS or Home Assistant Docker- `/media`;

> - For Home Assistant Core - Path to the folder, where you create a media folder.

Author: https://github.com/airalab/robonomics-wiki/pull/688/commits/628c50bc9368a4d6fbb259e735b3b16f6ae99346

Additionally, you can choose the recording Duration. 

> Fill in the fields and call the service with the "CALL SERVICE" button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fill in the data and call the service with the "CALL SERVICE" button.
```

Author: https://github.com/airalab/robonomics-wiki/pull/688/commits/628c50bc9368a4d6fbb259e735b3b16f6ae99346

## DAPP

> to view the received video go to [Robonomics DAPP](https://vol4tim.github.io/videostream/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view the resulted video go to [Robonomics DAPP](https://vol4tim.github.io/videostream/).
```

Author: https://github.com/airalab/robonomics-wiki/pull/688/commits/628c50bc9368a4d6fbb259e735b3b16f6ae99346

<robo-wiki-picture src="home-assistant/video-dapp.jpg" />

> Paste in your controller's account address and click the button. Wait while the search for twins is in progress. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Paste in your controller's account address and click the button below. Wait for the "Search for Twins" process. 
```

Author: https://github.com/airalab/robonomics-wiki/pull/688/commits/628c50bc9368a4d6fbb259e735b3b16f6ae99346

> As a result, you will get an IPFS hash with all recorded videos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result, you will get an IPFS CID with all recorded videos.
```

Author: https://github.com/airalab/robonomics-wiki/pull/688/commits/628c50bc9368a4d6fbb259e735b3b16f6ae99346

<robo-wiki-picture src="home-assistant/video-ipfs.jpg" />

Next, select the controller account (or any other) from the drop-down list and sign a message for authorization in

> the web3 ipfs gateway to download all the videos. As a result, we see all the videos recorded by our smart home.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the Web3 IPFS gateway to download all the videos. As a result, you will obtain see all the videos recorded by your smart home.
```

Author: https://github.com/airalab/robonomics-wiki/pull/688/commits/628c50bc9368a4d6fbb259e735b3b16f6ae99346

<robo-wiki-picture src="home-assistant/show-videos.jpg" />

> Since all the videos in the folder are encrypted with the controller key, you need to insert them to decrypt videos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since all the videos in the folder are encrypted with the controller key, you need to insert it to decrypt videos.
```

> After that, the video playback button is activated. After clicking on the play button, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After that, the video playback button is activated. Click on it to download the video.
```

Author: https://github.com/airalab/robonomics-wiki/pull/688/commits/628c50bc9368a4d6fbb259e735b3b16f6ae99346

> the video is downloaded, and it will become available for playback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Author: https://github.com/airalab/robonomics-wiki/pull/688/commits/628c50bc9368a4d6fbb259e735b3b16f6ae99346
